README.md, before:

[![License: Zlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Zlib-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Zlib)
[![.NET](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![NuGet Version and Downloads count](https://buildstats.info/nuget/DotRecast.Core)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/DotRecast.Core)
![Github Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/ikpil/DotRecast)
![Languages](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/ikpil/DotRecast)
[![Visitors](https://api.visitorbadge.io/api/daily?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fikpil%2FDotRecast&countColor=%23263759&style=flat-square)](https://visitorbadge.io/status?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fikpil%2FDotRecast)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/ikpil?style=flat-square&logo=GitHub-Sponsors&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fsponsors%2Fikpil)](https://github.com/sponsors/ikpil)

# DotRecast : C# Recast & Detour

DotRecast is a port of C++'s [recastnavigation](https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation) and Java's [recast4j](https://github.com/ppiastucki/recast4j) to the C# language.

## 📹 Youtube
<a href="https://youtu.be/zIFIgziKLhQ"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/313821/266750582-8cf67832-1206-4b58-8c1f-7205210cbf22.gif" width="100" height="50"/></a>
<a href="https://youtu.be/CPvc19gNUEk"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/CPvc19gNUEk/0.jpg" width="100" height="50"/></a>
<a href="https://youtu.be/pe5jpGUNPRg"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/pe5jpGUNPRg/0.jpg" width="100" height="50"/></a>

## 🚀 Features
- 🤖 Automatic - Recast can generate a navmesh from any level geometry you throw at it
- 🏎️ Fast - swift turnaround times for level designers
- 🧘 Flexible - detailed customization options and modular design let you tailor functionality to your specific needs
- 🚫 Dependency-Free - building Recast & Detour only requires a .NET compiler
- 💪 Industry Standard - Recast powers AI navigation features in Unity, Unreal, Godot, O3DE and countless AAA and indie games and engines

Recast Navigation is divided into multiple modules, each contained in its own folder:

- `DotRecast.Recast`: Navmesh generation
- `DotRecast.Detour`: Runtime loading of navmesh data, pathfinding, navmesh queries
- `DotRecast.Detour.TileCache`: Navmesh streaming. Useful for large levels and open-world games
- `DotRecast.Detour.Crowd`: Agent movement, collision avoidance, and crowd simulation
- `DotRecast.Recast.Dynamic`: robust support for dynamic nav meshes combining pre-built voxels with dynamic objects which can be freely added and removed
- `DotRecast.Recast.Extras`: simple tool to import navmeshes created with [A* Pathfinding Project](https://arongranberg.com/astar/)
- `DotRecast.Recast.Toolset`: sdk
- `DotRecast.Recast.Demo`: Standalone, comprehensive demo app showcasing all aspects of Recast & Detour's functionality
- `test/DotRecast.*.Test`: Unit tests


## DotRecast.Recast

Recast is state of the art navigation mesh construction toolset for games.

Recast constructs a navmesh through a multi-step rasterization process:

1. First Recast voxelizes the input triangle mesh by rasterizing the triangles into a multi-layer heightfield.
2. Voxels in areas where the character would not be able to move are removed by applying simple voxel data filters.
3. The walkable areas described by the voxel grid are then divided into sets of 2D polygonal regions.
4. The navigation polygons are generated by triangulating and stitching together the generated 2d polygonal regions.

## DotRecast.Detour

Recast is accompanied by Detour, a path-finding and spatial reasoning toolkit. You can use any navigation mesh with Detour, but of course the data generated with Recast fits perfectly.

Detour offers a simple static navmesh data representation which is suitable for many simple cases.  It also provides a tiled navigation mesh representation, which allows you to stream of navigation data in and out as the player progresses through the world and regenerate sections of the navmesh data as the world changes.

## DotRecast.Recast.Demo

You can find a comprehensive demo project in the `DotRecast.Recast.Demo` folder. It's a kitchen sink demo showcasing all the functionality of the library. If you are new to Recast & Detour, check out [SoloNavMeshBuilder.cs](/src/DotRecast.Recast.Demo/Builder/SoloNavMeshBuilder.cs) to get started with building navmeshes and [TestNavmeshTool.cs](/src/DotRecast.Recast.Demo/Tools/TestNavmeshTool.cs) to see how Detour can be used to find paths.

### Building DotRecast.Recast.Demo

1. `DotRecast.Recast.Demo` uses [dotnet 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) to build platform specific projects. Download it and make sure it's available on your path, or specify the path to it.
2. Open a command prompt, point it to a directory and clone DotRecast to it: `git clone https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast.git`
3. Open `<DotRecastDir>\DotRecast.sln` with Visual Studio 2022 and build `DotRecast.Recast.Demo`
   - Optionally, you can run using the `dotnet run` command with `DotRecast.Recast.Demo.csproj`

#### Windows

- need to install [microsoft visual c++ redistributable package](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist)

#### Linux & macOS & Windows

- Navigate to the `DotRecast.Recast.Demo` folder and run `dotnet run`

### Running Unit tests

#### With VS2022

- In Visual Studio 2022 go to the test menu and press `Run All Tests` 

#### With CLI

- in the DotRecast folder open a command prompt and run `dotnet test`

## Integrating with your game or engine

It is recommended to add the source directories `DotRecast.Core`, `DotRecast.Detour.Crowd`, `DotRecast.Detour.Dynamic`, `DotRecast.Detour.TitleCache`, `DotRecast.Detour.Extras` and `DotRecast.Recast` into your own project depending on which parts of the project you need. For example your level building tool could include `DotRecast.Core`, `DotRecast.Recast`, and `DotRecast.Detour`, and your game runtime could just include `DotRecast.Detour`.

## Discuss

- discussions: 
  - https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation/discussions
- issues:
  - https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/issues or
  - https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation/issues

## License

DotRecast is licensed under ZLib license, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more information.

Commit message:

update: readme - how to works

README.md, after:

[![License: Zlib](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Zlib-lightgrey.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Zlib)
[![.NET](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/dotnet.yml)
[![CodeQL](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/codeql.yml/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/actions/workflows/codeql.yml)
[![NuGet Version and Downloads count](https://buildstats.info/nuget/DotRecast.Core)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/DotRecast.Core)
![Github Repo Size](https://img.shields.io/github/repo-size/ikpil/DotRecast)
![Languages](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/top/ikpil/DotRecast)
[![Visitors](https://api.visitorbadge.io/api/daily?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fikpil%2FDotRecast&countColor=%23263759&style=flat-square)](https://visitorbadge.io/status?path=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fikpil%2FDotRecast)
[![GitHub Sponsors](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/ikpil?style=flat-square&logo=GitHub-Sponsors&link=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fsponsors%2Fikpil)](https://github.com/sponsors/ikpil)

# DotRecast : C# Recast & Detour

DotRecast is a port of C++'s [recastnavigation](https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation) and Java's [recast4j](https://github.com/ppiastucki/recast4j) to the C# language.

## 📹 Youtube
<a href="https://youtu.be/zIFIgziKLhQ"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/313821/266750582-8cf67832-1206-4b58-8c1f-7205210cbf22.gif" width="100" height="50"/></a>
<a href="https://youtu.be/CPvc19gNUEk"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/CPvc19gNUEk/0.jpg" width="100" height="50"/></a>
<a href="https://youtu.be/pe5jpGUNPRg"><img src="https://img.youtube.com/vi/pe5jpGUNPRg/0.jpg" width="100" height="50"/></a>

## 🚀 Features
- 🤖 Automatic - Recast can generate a navmesh from any level geometry you throw at it
- 🏎️ Fast - swift turnaround times for level designers
- 🧘 Flexible - detailed customization options and modular design let you tailor functionality to your specific needs
- 🚫 Dependency-Free - building Recast & Detour only requires a .NET compiler
- 💪 Industry Standard - Recast powers AI navigation features in Unity, Unreal, Godot, O3DE and countless AAA and indie games and engines

Recast Navigation is divided into multiple modules, each contained in its own folder:

- `DotRecast.Recast`: Navmesh generation
- `DotRecast.Detour`: Runtime loading of navmesh data, pathfinding, navmesh queries
- `DotRecast.Detour.TileCache`: Navmesh streaming. Useful for large levels and open-world games
- `DotRecast.Detour.Crowd`: Agent movement, collision avoidance, and crowd simulation
- `DotRecast.Recast.Dynamic`: robust support for dynamic nav meshes combining pre-built voxels with dynamic objects which can be freely added and removed
- `DotRecast.Recast.Extras`: simple tool to import navmeshes created with [A* Pathfinding Project](https://arongranberg.com/astar/)
- `DotRecast.Recast.Toolset`: sdk
- `DotRecast.Recast.Demo`: Standalone, comprehensive demo app showcasing all aspects of Recast & Detour's functionality
- `test/DotRecast.*.Test`: Unit tests

## ⚙ How it Works

Recast constructs a navmesh through a multi-step mesh rasterization process.

1. First Recast rasterizes the input triangle meshes into voxels.
2. Voxels in areas where agents would not be able to move are filtered and removed.
3. The walkable areas described by the voxel grid are then divided into sets of polygonal regions.
4. The navigation polygons are generated by re-triangulating the generated polygonal regions into a navmesh.

You can use Recast to build a single navmesh, or a tiled navmesh.
Single meshes are suitable for many simple, static cases and are easy to work with.
Tiled navmeshes are more complex to work with but better support larger, more dynamic environments.  Tiled meshes enable advance Detour features like re-baking, heirarchical path-planning, and navmesh data-streaming.

### Building DotRecast.Recast.Demo

1. `DotRecast.Recast.Demo` uses [dotnet 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/) to build platform specific projects. Download it and make sure it's available on your path, or specify the path to it.
2. Open a command prompt, point it to a directory and clone DotRecast to it: `git clone https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast.git`
3. Open `<DotRecastDir>\DotRecast.sln` with Visual Studio 2022 and build `DotRecast.Recast.Demo`
   - Optionally, you can run using the `dotnet run` command with `DotRecast.Recast.Demo.csproj`

#### Windows

- need to install [microsoft visual c++ redistributable package](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cpp/windows/latest-supported-vc-redist)

#### Linux & macOS & Windows

- Navigate to the `DotRecast.Recast.Demo` folder and run `dotnet run`

### Running Unit tests

#### With VS2022

- In Visual Studio 2022 go to the test menu and press `Run All Tests` 

#### With CLI

- in the DotRecast folder open a command prompt and run `dotnet test`

## Discuss

- discussions: 
  - https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation/discussions
- issues:
  - https://github.com/ikpil/DotRecast/issues or
  - https://github.com/recastnavigation/recastnavigation/issues

## License

DotRecast is licensed under ZLib license, see [LICENSE.txt](LICENSE.txt) for more information.
